pages/concepts.mdx, before:

# Modelfile Implementation Documentation

This document describes the Modelfile implementation in this Rust-based codebase. The implementation is based on the Ollama Modelfile specification (https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/modelfile.md).

## Overview

The Modelfile parser is implemented in `src/core/modelfile.rs` using the `nom` parser combinator library. It parses a text-based configuration format for defining model configurations, parameters, templates, and system prompts.

## Grammar

The Modelfile grammar follows this structure:

```
command -> Instruction arguments*

Instruction -> "FROM" | "PARAMETER" | "TEMPLATE" | "SYSTEM" | "ADAPTER" | "LICENSE" | "MESSAGE" | "#"

arguments -> WORD | quoted_string | multiline_string

quoted_string -> "<str>"

multiline_string -> """<str>"""
```

## Supported Instructions

### FROM (Required)

The `FROM` instruction specifies the base model to use. This is the only required instruction in a Modelfile.

**Syntax:**

```
FROM <model_name>
```

**Examples:**

```
FROM llama3.2

FROM llama3.2:latest

FROM /path/to/model.gguf

FROM mlx-community/dolphin3.0-llama3.2-1B-4Bit
```

**Validation:**

- Only one `FROM` instruction is allowed per Modelfile
- A Modelfile without a `FROM` instruction will fail validation

### PARAMETER

The `PARAMETER` instruction sets model inference parameters. Multiple parameters can be specified.

**Syntax:**

```
PARAMETER <parameter_name> <value>
```

**Supported Parameters:**

**Integer Parameters:**

- `num_ctx` - Context window size
- `repeat_last_n` - Number of tokens to consider for repeat penalty
- `seed` - Random seed for generation
- `num_predict` - Maximum number of tokens to predict
- `top_k` - Top-k sampling parameter

**Float Parameters:**

- `temperature` - Sampling temperature (0.0 to 1.0+)
- `repeat_penalty` - Penalty for repeating tokens
- `top_p` - Nucleus sampling parameter
- `min_p` - Minimum probability threshold

**String Parameters:**

- `stop` - Stop sequence (can be specified multiple times)

**Examples:**

```
PARAMETER num_ctx 4096

PARAMETER temperature 0.7

PARAMETER stop "<|eot_id|>"

PARAMETER stop "</s>"

PARAMETER top_p 0.9

PARAMETER seed 42
```

**Validation:**

- Parameter names are case-insensitive
- Integer parameters must parse as valid i32 values
- Float parameters must parse as valid f32 values
- Invalid parameter types will result in an error

### TEMPLATE

The `TEMPLATE` instruction defines the prompt template for the model. Only one template is allowed.

**Syntax:**

```
TEMPLATE <template_string>
```

**Examples:**

```
TEMPLATE """{{ if .System }}<|start_header_id|>system<|end_header_id|>

{{ .System }}<|eot_id|>{{ end }}{{ if .Prompt }}<|start_header_id|>user<|end_header_id|>

{{ .Prompt }}<|eot_id|>{{ end }}<|start_header_id|>assistant<|end_header_id|>

{{ .Response }}<|eot_id|>"""
```

**Validation:**

- Only one `TEMPLATE` instruction is allowed per Modelfile
- Template can be specified as a single-line string, quoted string, or multiline string

### SYSTEM

The `SYSTEM` instruction sets the system prompt for the model. Only one system prompt is allowed.

**Syntax:**

```
SYSTEM <system_prompt>
```

**Examples:**

```
SYSTEM "You are a helpful assistant."

SYSTEM """

You are a bot

You also not a bot

"""
```

**Validation:**

- Only one `SYSTEM` instruction is allowed per Modelfile
- System prompt can be specified as a single-line string, quoted string, or multiline string

### ADAPTER

The `ADAPTER` instruction specifies a path to a LoRA adapter file. Only one adapter is allowed.

**Syntax:**

```
ADAPTER <adapter_path>
```

**Examples:**

```
ADAPTER /path/to/adapter.bin

ADAPTER ./adapters/my_adapter.safetensors
```

**Validation:**

- Only one `ADAPTER` instruction is allowed per Modelfile

### LICENSE

The `LICENSE` instruction specifies the license text for the model. Only one license is allowed.

**Syntax:**

```
LICENSE <license_text>
```

**Examples:**

```
LICENSE "MIT"

LICENSE """

Apache License

Version 2.0, January 2004

...

"""
```

**Validation:**

- Only one `LICENSE` instruction is allowed per Modelfile
- License text can be specified as a single-line string, quoted string, or multiline string

### MESSAGE

The `MESSAGE` instruction defines example messages for few-shot learning or conversation examples. Multiple messages can be specified.

**Syntax:**

```
MESSAGE <role> <message_content>
```

**Supported Roles:**

- `system` - System message
- `user` - User message
- `assistant` - Assistant message

**Examples:**

```
MESSAGE user """Is Toronto in Canada?

or Is cologne in france"""

MESSAGE assistant yes

MESSAGE user Is Sacramento in Canada?

MESSAGE assistant no
```

**Validation:**

- Role must be one of: `system`, `user`, or `assistant` (case-insensitive)
- Invalid roles will result in an error

### Comments

Comments are supported using the `#` character. Comments are preserved in the parsed Modelfile.

**Syntax:**

```
# <comment_text>
```

**Examples:**

```
# Modelfile generated by "ollama show"

# To build a new Modelfile based on this one, replace the FROM line with:

FROM llama3.2

# This is a comment
```

## String Formats

The parser supports three string formats for instruction arguments:

1. **Single-line strings**: Plain text until end of line
   ```
   FROM llama3.2
   ```

2. **Quoted strings**: Text enclosed in double quotes `"`
   ```
   SYSTEM "You are a helpful assistant."
   ```

3. **Multiline strings**: Text enclosed in triple quotes `"""`
   ```
   SYSTEM """

   You are a bot

   You also not a bot

   """
   ```

Commit message:

Refine OpenGraph title handling and metadata
Introduces separate documentTitle and ogTitle fields for improved control over page and OpenGraph titles. Updates components, utility functions, and frontmatter to support this distinction, ensuring more accurate metadata for SEO and social sharing. Also revises documentation headings for clarity.

pages/concepts.mdx, after:

# Modelfile Concepts

This document describes the Modelfile implementation in this Rust-based codebase. The implementation is based on the [Ollama Modelfile specification](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/modelfile.md). We are gradually adding support for the Modelfile specification in our Rust based implementation, and our goal is to evolve Modelfile in collaboration with the community and establish it as a standard for model customization.

## Overview

The Modelfile parser is implemented in `src/core/modelfile.rs` using the `nom` parser combinator library. It parses a text-based configuration format for defining model configurations, parameters, templates, and system prompts.

## Grammar

The Modelfile grammar follows this structure:

```
command -> Instruction arguments*

Instruction -> "FROM" | "PARAMETER" | "TEMPLATE" | "SYSTEM" | "ADAPTER" | "LICENSE" | "MESSAGE" | "#"

arguments -> WORD | quoted_string | multiline_string

quoted_string -> "<str>"

multiline_string -> """<str>"""
```

## Supported Instructions

### FROM (Required)

The `FROM` instruction specifies the base model to use. This is the only required instruction in a Modelfile.

**Syntax:**

```
FROM <model_name>
```

**Examples:**

```
FROM llama3.2

FROM llama3.2:latest

FROM /path/to/model.gguf

FROM mlx-community/dolphin3.0-llama3.2-1B-4Bit
```

**Validation:**

- Only one `FROM` instruction is allowed per Modelfile
- A Modelfile without a `FROM` instruction will fail validation

### PARAMETER

The `PARAMETER` instruction sets model inference parameters. Multiple parameters can be specified.

**Syntax:**

```
PARAMETER <parameter_name> <value>
```

**Supported Parameters:**

**Integer Parameters:**

- `num_ctx` - Context window size
- `repeat_last_n` - Number of tokens to consider for repeat penalty
- `seed` - Random seed for generation
- `num_predict` - Maximum number of tokens to predict
- `top_k` - Top-k sampling parameter

**Float Parameters:**

- `temperature` - Sampling temperature (0.0 to 1.0+)
- `repeat_penalty` - Penalty for repeating tokens
- `top_p` - Nucleus sampling parameter
- `min_p` - Minimum probability threshold

**String Parameters:**

- `stop` - Stop sequence (can be specified multiple times)

**Examples:**

```
PARAMETER num_ctx 4096

PARAMETER temperature 0.7

PARAMETER stop "<|eot_id|>"

PARAMETER stop "</s>"

PARAMETER top_p 0.9

PARAMETER seed 42
```

**Validation:**

- Parameter names are case-insensitive
- Integer parameters must parse as valid i32 values
- Float parameters must parse as valid f32 values
- Invalid parameter types will result in an error

### TEMPLATE

The `TEMPLATE` instruction defines the prompt template for the model. Only one template is allowed.

**Syntax:**

```
TEMPLATE <template_string>
```

**Examples:**

```
TEMPLATE """{{ if .System }}<|start_header_id|>system<|end_header_id|>

{{ .System }}<|eot_id|>{{ end }}{{ if .Prompt }}<|start_header_id|>user<|end_header_id|>

{{ .Prompt }}<|eot_id|>{{ end }}<|start_header_id|>assistant<|end_header_id|>

{{ .Response }}<|eot_id|>"""
```

**Validation:**

- Only one `TEMPLATE` instruction is allowed per Modelfile
- Template can be specified as a single-line string, quoted string, or multiline string

### SYSTEM

The `SYSTEM` instruction sets the system prompt for the model. Only one system prompt is allowed.

**Syntax:**

```
SYSTEM <system_prompt>
```

**Examples:**

```
SYSTEM "You are a helpful assistant."

SYSTEM """

You are a bot

You also not a bot

"""
```

**Validation:**

- Only one `SYSTEM` instruction is allowed per Modelfile
- System prompt can be specified as a single-line string, quoted string, or multiline string

### ADAPTER

The `ADAPTER` instruction specifies a path to a LoRA adapter file. Only one adapter is allowed.

**Syntax:**

```
ADAPTER <adapter_path>
```

**Examples:**

```
ADAPTER /path/to/adapter.bin

ADAPTER ./adapters/my_adapter.safetensors
```

**Validation:**

- Only one `ADAPTER` instruction is allowed per Modelfile

### LICENSE

The `LICENSE` instruction specifies the license text for the model. Only one license is allowed.

**Syntax:**

```
LICENSE <license_text>
```

**Examples:**

```
LICENSE "MIT"

LICENSE """

Apache License

Version 2.0, January 2004

...

"""
```

**Validation:**

- Only one `LICENSE` instruction is allowed per Modelfile
- License text can be specified as a single-line string, quoted string, or multiline string

### MESSAGE

The `MESSAGE` instruction defines example messages for few-shot learning or conversation examples. Multiple messages can be specified.

**Syntax:**

```
MESSAGE <role> <message_content>
```

**Supported Roles:**

- `system` - System message
- `user` - User message
- `assistant` - Assistant message

**Examples:**

```
MESSAGE user """Is Toronto in Canada?

or Is cologne in france"""

MESSAGE assistant yes

MESSAGE user Is Sacramento in Canada?

MESSAGE assistant no
```

**Validation:**

- Role must be one of: `system`, `user`, or `assistant` (case-insensitive)
- Invalid roles will result in an error

### Comments

Comments are supported using the `#` character. Comments are preserved in the parsed Modelfile.

**Syntax:**

```
# <comment_text>
```

**Examples:**

```
# Modelfile generated by "ollama show"

# To build a new Modelfile based on this one, replace the FROM line with:

FROM llama3.2

# This is a comment
```

## String Formats

The parser supports three string formats for instruction arguments:

1. **Single-line strings**: Plain text until end of line
   ```
   FROM llama3.2
   ```

2. **Quoted strings**: Text enclosed in double quotes `"`
   ```
   SYSTEM "You are a helpful assistant."
   ```

3. **Multiline strings**: Text enclosed in triple quotes `"""`
   ```
   SYSTEM """

   You are a bot

   You also not a bot

   """
   ```
