pages/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Modelfile based SDK that lets developers customize open models and agent experiences"
ogTitle: "Tilekit: Modelfile based SDK that lets developers customize open models and agent experiences."
description: "Tilekit is a Rust-based declarative, cross-platform Modelfile-based SDK that lets developers customize open models and agent experiences. Build, run, and share fine-tuned open models with ease."
type: "website"
---

# Tilekit
 
Tilekit is a Rust based declarative, cross-platform [Modelfile](https://ollama.readthedocs.io/en/modelfile/) based SDK that lets developers customize open models and agent experiences.

## Documentation

This documentation covers the various components, libraries, and tools available in the Tilekit SDK.

## License

This project is dual-licensed under MIT and Apache 2.0 terms:

- MIT license [LICENSE-MIT.txt](https://github.com/tileslauncher/tilekit/blob/main/LICENSE-MIT.txt)
- Apache License, Version 2.0, [LICENSE-APACHE.txt](https://github.com/tileslauncher/tilekit/blob/main/LICENSE-APACHE.txt)

Downstream projects and end users may choose either license individually, or both together, at their discretion. The motivation for this dual-licensing is the additional software patent assurance provided by Apache 2.0.

Commit message:

Add implementation section and update metadata for Modelfile documentation
- Introduced a new `implementation.mdx` file detailing the Modelfile parser and its grammar.
- Updated `_meta.json` to include an "implementation" field, replacing the "concepts" field.
- Revised `index.mdx` to provide an overview of the Modelfile implementation and collaboration efforts.
- Added a reference section in `reference.mdx` for Modelfile and MIR specifications.

pages/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Modelfile based SDK that lets developers customize open models and agent experiences"
ogTitle: "Tilekit: Modelfile based SDK that lets developers customize open models and agent experiences."
description: "Tilekit is a Rust-based declarative, cross-platform Modelfile-based SDK that lets developers customize open models and agent experiences. Build, run, and share fine-tuned open models with ease."
type: "website"
---

# Tilekit
 
Tilekit is a Rust based declarative, cross-platform [Modelfile](https://ollama.readthedocs.io/en/modelfile/) based SDK that lets developers customize open models and agent experiences.

This document describes the Modelfile implementation in this Rust-based codebase. The implementation is based on the [Ollama Modelfile specification](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/modelfile.md). We are gradually adding support for the Modelfile specification in our Rust based implementation, and our goal is to evolve Modelfile in collaboration with the community and establish it as a standard for model customization.

To begin with, we are collaborating with the [Darkshapes](https://darkshapes.org) team to support the [MIR](https://huggingface.co/darkshapes/MIR_) (Machine Intelligence Resource) model naming scheme for our Modelfile implementation while maintaining full backward compatibility with the Ollama's implementation. Learn more about how we are thinking of this model deployment problem space in our proposal on the next page. We support Hugging Face today and plan to build our own registry later, using the open source implementation in [xet-core](https://github.com/huggingface/xet-core) for model layering.

## License

This project is dual-licensed under MIT and Apache 2.0 terms:

- MIT license [LICENSE-MIT.txt](https://github.com/tileslauncher/tilekit/blob/main/LICENSE-MIT.txt)
- Apache License, Version 2.0, [LICENSE-APACHE.txt](https://github.com/tileslauncher/tilekit/blob/main/LICENSE-APACHE.txt)

Downstream projects and end users may choose either license individually, or both together, at their discretion. The motivation for this dual-licensing is the additional software patent assurance provided by Apache 2.0.
